The Skill List
Min. INT 8
Boating:  Boating allows a character to handle a boat or other small watercraft.  A character without this Skill who is attempting to handle a boat must make a 4d6 Dexterity Check every 5 minutes or capsize; a character with this skill need only roll once per trip, or in an emergency situation, and rolls 3d6.  Boating Cost:  1 slot.  Min. INT:  8

Casual Riding:  Casual Riding allows a character to ride an animal outside of combat or other stressful situations.  No roll is necessary for ordinary, day to day travel.  A roll may be required once on any trip where high speed travel takes place.  Any one of the following factors calls for an immediate 3d6 Dexterity Check; each additional factor increases the check by one die:  high speed maneuvering, high speed over broken terrain, high speed over road hazards, combat, injury to mount of 1 or more damage, injury to rider of 3 or more damage, fire, sudden appearance of something.  Attacking from the mount is at -4 to Effective Dexterity, and all attacks against the character are at +2.  Controlling the mount during combat requires a Dexterity Check for each combat move, and moving the mount takes actions as if the character were moving himself.  On any emergency situation check, rolling a 16 or 17 means the rider falls off; a roll of 18 means the rider falls off, and the mount falls on the rider.  When you take this Skill, choose one type of animal to be your mount (any non-flying animal) for one Slot.  Casual Riding Cost:  1 slot.  Min. INT:  8

Farming:  Farming gives the character general knowledge in running a farm, dealing with farm animals, and growing crops.  Farming Cost:  1 slot.

Literacy:  The character knows how to read any languages he can speak.  Literacy Cost:  1 slot.

Running:  Running is primarily skill at long distance running; add +2 to the character's Movement in all situations where long distance running is a factor.  Running Cost:  2 slots. 

Sailor:  Sailor is the ability to function and act as a crew member on a sailing vessel; essentially, any sailing vessel large enough to require crew.  Characters without this Skill are at -2 to Effective Dexterity while on a sailing vessel, except for casting non-Missile spells; they also may get into various kinds of minor (or not-so-minor!) GM-defined trouble while on a ship.  Sailor Cost:  1 slot

Sex Appeal:  Sex Appeal gives the character +1 on all Attribute Checks regarding interaction with NPCs of the opposite sex, or of the same sex who prefer members of the same sex.  The character can make a 3d6 Attribute Check against Strength or Intelligence to charm a member of the preferred sex (it's up to the GM exactly what this entails).  Sex Appeal Cost:  1 slot.

Swimming:  The character knows how to swim.  A character without this Skill makes a 3d6 Dexterity Check every Turn or begins to drown.  Encumbrance reduces this directly.  A character with Swimming only has to make this roll in an emergency situation.  Swimming Cost:  1 slot.

Will:  Will grants the character +2 on all rolls used to resist fast talk attempts and spells and other powers that affect the mind (such as Telepathy and the like).  The character is immune to uses of the Sex Appeal and Charisma Skills, if he chooses to be.  Will Cost: 2 slots.
Min. INT 9:
Alertness:  A character with the Alertness Skill rolls 1 die less on Intelligence Checks related to perception, whether actively searching or passively noticing things.  He can also roll a 3d6 Intelligence Check to notice an ambush before being attacked.  Alertness Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT: 9

Animal Handling:  Animal Handling is the ability to train and befriend animals.  In order to befriend an animal, the character must not be hostile, and must be away from other people and animals.  The character must act friendly toward the animal.  The character may then roll a 3d6 Intelligence Check; success means the animal is friendly toward the character, at least for a while. 

Given time and appropriate facilities and equipment, the character can train animals as well.  Training an animal requires weeks if not months, and a successful 3d6 Intelligence Check on the part of the trainer. 

The Skill only works on normal Animals with an INT score; at the GM's option it can work on some types of enchanted animals, but it never works on intelligent animals or creatures such as dragons, werewolves, insects, creatures with an INT of 8 or higher, or creatures with a human and an animal form.  Animal Handling Cost: 2 slots  Min. INT:  9

Bard:  Bard allows the character to sing and play a musical instrument; he also has some "stage presence," giving him the ability to get people to sing along, as well as to perform in such a way as to increase tips.  He can influence people as per the Sex Appeal Skill, though it affects all humans and humanoids; if he also has Sex Appeal, he receives a +2 bonus.    Bard Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT:  9

Casual Driving:  The Casual Driver Skill allows a character to drive a wagon, cart, chariot, or other type of wheeled conveyance, under non-combat conditions.  The Skill is applied appropriately to the technology level of the campaign; if the tech level is such that both animal drawn conveyances and self-powered carriages are available, one type must be chosen at the time the Skill is purchased.  For more details on the circumstances under which Casual Driver applies, see Casual Riding.  Casual Driver Cost:  1 slot.  Min. INT: 9.

Casual Riding (All Non-Flying Animals):  This Skill is identical to Casual Riding, except that it applies to all non-flying animals.  Characters with Casual Riding need only pay 1 slot to "upgrade" to this Skill.  Casual Riding (All Non-Flying Animals) Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT: 9

Charisma:  Charisma grants the character +1 on all rolls made to influence another character, including GM rolled reactions, attempts via social Skills or otherwise to interact with others, etc.  The Skill applies against humans and humanoid creatures, but not against animals, unintelligent creatures, demons, and so forth; if there's a question as to whether the Skill applies, it's up to the GM to determine.  Charisma Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT:  9

Climbing:  Climbing is the ability to climb mountains and rock walls; it's any climbing where climbing gear is used (ropes, spikes, pitons, etc.).  This Skill requires a climbing kit to use effectively.  Climbing Cost: 1 slot.

Detect Traps:  The character rolls 2 fewer dice when looking for traps, and 1 fewer when avoiding a trap that has gone off.  Detect Traps Cost:  2 slots, or 1 if the character also has Alertness. 

Enhanced Hearing:  The character hears much better than normal.  He rolls 1 fewer die on all hearing Perception Checks, and has a chance to hear other characters in situations where they are normally unable to be heard (such as while attempting Stealth, planning an ambush, etc.).  Enhanced Hearing Cost:  3 slots.

Expert Missilleer:  The character gets a +3 bonus to hit with all missile weapons and Missile spells that he knows (or knows how to use).  Expert Missilleer Cost: 3 slots

Expert Swimmer:  The character is an excellent swimmer, and is skilled in techniques such as lifeguarding, CPR, and rescue swimming.  He is certified to save lives on the water, if in a culture that does so.  He can roll a 3d6 Dexterity Check to attempt to rescue a swimmer who is drowning, and can roll a 4d6 Intelligence Check to attempt resuscitation against a swimmer who has lost all Strength to drowning, if begun within 3 minutes.  Expert Swimmer Cost:  1 slot.

Priest:  The character is a priest of his or her religion, ordained by law if in a culture that does so.  He may also have access to priestly spells, if they exist in the campaign (see also the "Warrior & Wizard: Priest" supplement for more details).  The character is also knowledgeable in areas of "priestcraft" -- how to preach, gain converts, administer a temple or a regional church, etc.  Priest Cost:  2 slots. 

Professional Skill:  Professions not otherwise listed or noted here are covered by the Professional Skill.  The Professional Skill must be defined at the time it is purchased, and must be defined as a profession appropriate to the setting in which the game takes place.  Examples are provided on the following list:

Beekeeper, Butcher, Carpenter, Hunter, Fisherman, Scribe, Trapper:  Cost 1 slot
Baker, Blacksmith, Brewer, Clerk, Cook, Gardener, Potter, Tailor:  Cost 2 slots
Accountant, Artist, Calligrapher, Lawyer:  Cost 3 slots

The character is capable of making things if his profession calls for it, or otherwise performing the duties of a profession; if a roll is required, he rolls a 3d6 Attribute Check against the appropriate attribute under normal circumstances, 4d6 under emergency or combat conditions, and 5d6 under emergency and combat conditions.  In opposed circumstances, he can make a 3d6 Attribute Check against an opponent's Attribute Check, and the greater margin of success comes out the winner. 

Professional Skill Cost:  See above.

Recognize Value:  A character with Recognize Value can, upon seeing or examining something, tell whether it is valuable or not.  He can't necessarily tell how valuable it is (that's the Assess Value Skill), but he can, for instance, tell valuable wine from vinegar or high value art from bad.  (He may or may not have the ability to gauge the quality of the work, but he does have the ability to tell whether or not it is valuable.)  Recognize Value Cost:  1 slot

Stealth:  The character has the ability to move silently.  On a successful 3d6 Dexterity Check, the character cannot be heard by characters with normal hearing.  Characters with Enhanced Hearing can hear the character up to 3 multihexes away, but only if they are actively listening.  On a failed roll, those with Enhanced Hearing can hear the character if they are passively listening within 3 multihexes; those with normal hearing can hear the character if they are actively listening and within 3 multihexes.  In both cases a successful 3d6 Intelligence Check is necessary, with a margin of success greater than the Stealth character's Dexterity Check.  Stealth Cost:  2 slots

Tough:  A Tough character has had years of rough and tumble combat experience, and has taken a few hits in his time.  He takes one point less damage from every hit in combat.  (If the optional nonlethal damage rules are used, he also takes two points less nonlethal damage.)  Tough Cost:  2 slots.  Prerequisite:  STR 14+

Very Tough:  This character makes the Tough character look like a green troop, wet behind the ears.  He eats cast iron for breakfast and poops out nails at lunchtime, and is frequently portrayed by Jack Palance.  He takes two points less damage from every hit.  (If the nonlethal damage rules are used, he also takes 4 points less nonlethal damage.)  Very Tough Cost:  3 slots.  Prerequisites:  STR 16+ and Tough.
Min. INT 10:
Acrobatics:  Acrobatics allows the character to roll one fewer die on any Attribute Checks required to keep his balance, maintain footing, avoid falling objects, or other similar feats.  He can also increase his leaping Movement (....) with a successful 3d6 Dexterity Check.  He can also climb up a rope, or climb a wall, tree, or other obstacle, using a rope, at a rate of 2 hexes per Turn, with no Attribute Check required (anyone without this Skill must roll a successful 2d6 Dexterity Check, and can only move 1 hex per Turn).  Acrobatics Cost:  3 slots.  Min. INT:  10.  Prerequisite:  Dexterity 12 or more. 

Armourer:  An Armourer can perform field repairs on and care for arms and armor (other than Fine weapons, firearms, crossbows, and siege engines) appropriate to the tech level, and can, given facilities and equipment, perform full repairs.  He effectively has the Recognize Value Skill regarding weapons and armor.    Armourer Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT:  10

Diplomacy:  The character is skilled in the arts of formal negotiation.  He is capable of negotiating in any situation with no penalties for racial or societal enmity or regardless of the current level of hostility.  He is also familiar with low level diplomatic protocols, and he may be certified as a low level diplomatic functionary in societies that do such.  Diplomacy Cost:  1 slot.

Engineer:  This refers to military engineering, and covers the ability to build, maintain, and use siege engines, including the ballista, catapult, trebuchet, etc.  The Engineer can also detect sappers and other types of siege tunnelling and mining.  Engineer Cost:  2 slots.

Espionage:  The character is skilled in low level forms of intelligence gathering.  In high tech societies he knows radio callsigns, encryption methods, messaging schedules, and the like; in low tech societies, he is better at keeping an ear open and catching gossip, but is also knowledgeable in codes, ciphers, and message drops.  Either way, he is also skilled at analyzing the intelligence data he gathers, and extracting useful information from it to pass along to his superiors.  The Espionage Skill does not include assassination methods, silent movement, or combat skills of any kind.    Espionage Cost:  2 slots.

Expert Flying:  The Expert Flying Skill reduces a flying character's combat penalties to zero.  A character with this Skill has no penalties at all in combat due to flying, regardless of the type of attack used.  Expert Flying Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT:  10.  Prerequisite:  Flying Skill. 

Fencing:  The character is an expert swordsman, studied and skilled in formal sword combat; Fencing is essentially a martial art form.  The character can only use Fencing if his Effective Dexterity is 14 or higher.  In sword combat, the character does double damage on a roll of 5-7 and triple damage on a roll of 3-4.  Fencing Cost:  3 slots.  Prerequisites:  Dexterity 14+, Effective Dexterity 14+, Weapon Familiarity with Swords. 

Flying:  The Flying Skill reduces a flying character's combat penalties.  Characters without this Skill who are themselves flying (via spell or other means) are normally at -2 to hit with melee weapons and spells, and -4 to hit with thrown and missile weapons.  A character with Flying has these penalties reduced by 2; in other words, he is at no penalty to hit with melee weapons and spells, and -2 to hit with thrown and missile weapons.  This Skill has the same cost for Wizards and Warriors.  Flying Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT:   8.  Prerequisites:  Either having the Flight spell, or knowing someone who has the Flight spell, or having an item of some kind that provides the ability to fly.  Flying creatures and members of flying races know this Skill at no cost!

Lockpicking:  Lockpicking allows a character, given enough time and the appropriate tools, to pick a lock.  This is normally only taught by thieves; the character must either be a member of the Thieves' Guild, or know a thief, to learn this Skill.  Locks are rated in numbers of dice, representing the level of Attribute Check the character must succeed at to pick the lock; characters without this Skill roll twice as many dice.  Lockpicking Cost:  1 slot.

Martial Arts I:  This is a basic, formally studied unarmed combat form.  The Skill represents multiple forms, and the player can choose which the Skill is intended to represent.  The character does one extra point of damage when fighting bare-handed.  In order to use any Martial Arts Skills, the character must either be unarmored or wearing armor no heavier than cloth.  Martial Arts I Cost:  2 slots.  Prerequisites: DEX 13+

Mimic:  Mimic allows the character to mimic sounds with his voice.  He can mimic specific voices and accents, as well as other sounds he is familiar with (for instance, having Naturalist Skill allows the character to mimic animal sounds).  Human or humanoid listeners make a 4d6 Intelligence Check to avoid being fooled (rolled by the GM); animals roll 2d6.  Every attempt to mimic a voice or sound is a separate roll.  Mimic Cost:  2 slots.

Naturalist:  The character is knowledgeable about herbs, animals, naturecraft, and so forth.  He is skilled at wilderness survival and recognizing creatures; he can recognize any normal plants, animals, and monsters (but not necessarily those specially created by the GM).  If he also has the Alertness Skill, he gets a 3d6 Intelligence Check (5d6 if he's running or fighting) to recognize an ambush in an outdoor area.  Even if he fails this roll, he still has a chance to dodge the attack.  Naturalist Cost:  2 slots. 

Remove Traps:  This Skill allows a character to, when disarming a trap, roll the trap's rated number of dice on a Dexterity or Intelligence Check.  Characters without the Remove Traps Skill roll twice that many dice.  Remove Traps Cost:  1 slot.  Prerequisite: Detect Traps

Sleight of Hand: Sleight of Hand allows the character to pick pockets as well as palm small objects and perform "magic tricks" such as card tricks and the like (though it grants no ability to perform actual spells).  The character rolls a 3d6 Dexterity Check; failure gives the victim(s) or viewers a 3d6 Intelligence Check (with a bonus equal to the margin of failure) to detect the attempt (or see how the trick was done).  Sleight of Hand Cost:  2 slots, or 1 slot if the character has the Lockpicking Skill. 

Tracking:  Tracking allows the character to tell what kinds of creatures frequently pass through an area.  On a successful 3d6 Intelligence Check (rolled by the GM) he can tell what kinds of creatures have been through recently, and on a 4d6 check can follow a trail (characters without the Tracking Skill roll 5d6 to follow a trail).  Tracking Cost:  1 slot.

Trading:  The character is good at making deals and has some general business knowledge.  He is at +1 on all rolls involving trade.  On a particularly good roll (margin of success 5 or more) he can sell an item for up to twice its value, or buy one for as low as half its value (if the target also has Trading or the Assess Value Skill, or has some particular knowledge of the item in question, he can make an opposed Intelligence Check).  Trading Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT:  10
Min. INT 11:
Architect/Builder:  The character can design, build, and act as a construction foreman on large building projects such as houses, cathedrals, castles, and other buildings.  He can also determine the best place to construct a building, taking into account factors such as flooding, the type of ground, and the like.  He is skilled with reading plans and maps, and has the equivalent of the Recognize Value Skill regarding buildings and real estate.  He can also determine potential weak spots in a building, given either the plans or some time to walk around and examine it.  Architect/Builder Cost: 2 slots  Min. INT:  11.  Prerequisite:  Literacy

Artisan:  An Artisan is capable of building small mechanical objects and gadgets; he is also capable of disarming traps (if you already have the Remove Traps Skill, Artisan costs only one slot).  He is also capable of acting as an Armourer as regards crossbows and siege engines.  Besides removing traps, the Artisan can also build them; the amount of time required is two hours for every die in all of the checks required to see, dodge, and remove the trap (for example, a trap that required a 3d6 check to detect, a 4d6 check to dodge, and a 4d6 check to remove, would take (3 + 4 + 4) x 2 = 22 hours to build).  Cost and availability of materials are up to the GM.  Artisan Cost: 2 slots.  Min. INT:  11

Casual Riding (Flying Animal): This Skill is identical to Casual Riding, except that it applies to a flying animal of some kind.  The only difference is the higher INT requirement, because of the additional factors involved in flying.  Choose one type of flying animal to be your mount.  Casual Riding (Flying Animal) Cost:  1 slot.  Min. INT: 11.

Chirurgeon:  The Chirurgeon is a skilled physician.  He can heal up to 2 points of damage to any character (lethal or nonlethal, though not STR loss due to spellcasting), immediately after the combat or incident in which the damage was incurred.  He must have a medical kit.  Two or more chirurgeons cannot pool their efforts to heal a character of more than 2 points.  Each use of Chirurgeon Skill takes 5 minutes.  A character with both  Naturalist and Chirurgeon is an herbal healer, and can use herbal medicines; in an outdoor area he can gather the appropriate herbs and plant medicines to do the trick, rather than needing his medical kit (GM's option as to whether they're available, though the default should be "yes").  Chirurgeon Cost:  2 slots. 

Combat Driving:  Combat Driving allows a character to drive a wheeled conveyance of some kind, appropriate to the campaign's technology level, under combat conditions.  See below under Combat Riding for more information on the circumstances under which this Skill applies.  Combat Driving Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT:  11.  Prerequisite:  Casual Driving Skill. 

Combat Riding:  Combat Riding allows a character to ride an animal in combat or emergency situations, to keep the animal from spooking in these situations, and to more effectively control the animal.  The Combat Rider need not make a check if only one of the factors listed in Casual Riding is present; two or more is a 3d6 Effective Dexterity Check, and every additional two factors increases the check by one die.  The Combat Rider can attack while mounted at no additional penalty, and he is skilled at controlling his mount with leg pressure and voice commands only; it therefore costs him no actions to move his mount.  Combat Riding applies to all animals the character is capable of riding.  The character is also capable of training the animals he is familiar with as if he had Animal Handling, and is capable of treating them as if he were a Veterinarian.  Combat Riding Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT:  11.  Prerequisite:  Any Casual Riding Skill. 

Detect Lies: The character has the ability to detect whether another character is lying, based on body language, breathing, eye contact, and numerous other factors.  Roll a 3d6 opposed check, Intelligence vs. Intelligence (the GM rolls both sides); if the character with this Skill wins, he knows the other person is lying.  If the GM wins, he lies about whether or not the other person is lying.  (This Skill won't tell him what the truth is, only that the other person is lying.)  Detect Lies Cost:  2 slots.

Goldsmith: Goldsmith is the ability to craft jewelry and other small objects out of gold, silver, jewels, etc.  A character with both Goldsmith and Armourer Skill can craft silver weapons (swords, daggers, arrowheads, bullets, etc.).  Goldsmith Cost:  2 slots.  Prerequisite:  Recognize Value

High Society:  This is the ability to fit in with the upper crust of society.  The character knows the appropriate protocols for dealing with heads of state, old money, celebrities, etc.; he also knows which fork to use when, any number of dances appropriate to the society, and so on.  The character gets +1 on any social interaction rolls with any character who would see this as favorable, though -2 with anyone who is unimpressed with high society.  A character with both Diplomacy and this Skill can be posted as a diplomatic functionary to another court or government.  High Society Cost:  1 slot. 

Outdoorsman:  The Outdoorsman is knowledgeable at outdoor survival.  He is capable of living off the land, and is an expert at camping and surviving.  He can make camp, build a fire in the rain, tell edible plants from toxic, snare or hunt small game animals, etc.  Wilderness travel is at half speed unless half the party or more have Outdoorsman Skill; also, if the party lacks appropriate camping equipment, rations, etc., each member must roll a daily 3d6 Intelligence Check or take 1 point of damage due to exposure, insufficient food and rest, etc., unless there is at least one Outdoorsman in the party.  Outdoorsman Cost:  1 slot.  Prerequisite:  Naturalist. 

Shipbuilder: A character with Shipbuilder Skill can, given time, materials, equipment, etc., build a seagoing vessel of any size from small boat up to capital ship.  (Larger vessels require larger numbers of Shipbuilders, more time, and more equipment such as cranes and other heavy construction equipment.)  Shipbuilder Cost:  2 slots.

Tactics: This is the ability to formulate battle plans, anticipate what the enemy will do, and "push troops".  The character can use this in combat at any scale from single to about battalion size.  A character with both Tactics and Captain is eligible to command a warship, and is considered to specialize in naval tactics.  The character can have the GM roll a 5d6 Intelligence Check to determine what the enemy (NPC) will do; if the roll succeeds, the GM must tell the player, truthfully, what he plans to have the enemy do.  The character (and his party, if he is the party leader) gets +1 on any initiative rolls.  Tactics Cost:  1 slot. 

Two Weapon Fighting:  A character with this Skill has the ability to fight with a weapon in each hand.  More to the point, he can fight with two weapons that aren't part of a combination (combinations are sword and dagger, sword and main gauche, sword and spiked buckler, net and trident, paired cesti); a character without this skill can fight with two weapons that are part of a combination.  The character can:

Attack with both weapons, against the same or different targets.  The first attack is at normal value; the second is at -4. 
Attack with one weapon and parry (defend) with one. 
Parry (defend) with both. 

Two Weapon Fighting can be used in combination with the Fencing talent and appropriate weapons (two rapiers or a rapier and main gauche).  Two Weapon Fighting Cost:  3 slots.  Prerequisites:  DEX 13+, skills for all weapons used. 

Veterinarian:  This is the equivalent of Chirurgeon Skill, used on animals, and works exactly as that Skill does.  Veterinarian Cost:  2 slots, or 1 slot if the character already has Chirurgeon (a character spends 3 slots for both).  Prerequisite:  Animal Handling.
Min. INT 12:
Assess Value:  A character with Assess Value can determine the value of an item.  On a successful 3d6 Intelligence Check, the character can determine the value to within about 10%, or with a margin of success of 3 or greater within 1%.  The character must be able to examine the item, preferably by handling it; if he can't handle it but can view it, he is at a -1 penalty, and if he can neither handle nor view it he is at -3 at best.  The character might be able to detect some types of hidden damage, though he won't necessarily know how to fix it.  If the character knows an item is magical and knows what the enchantment is, he can determine its market value, but this Skill doesn't provide him any abilities to detect magic (though if it's a unique item with a reputation he may well know some, most, or all of its abilities).  Assess Value Cost:  1 slot.  Min INT:  12.  Prerequisite:  Recognize Value

Casual Riding (All Animals):  This Skill is identical to Casual Riding, except that it applies to all animals, flying and non-.  Characters with Casual Riding who meet the INT Minimum need only pay 1 slot to "upgrade" to this Skill.  Casual Riding (All Animals) Cost:  2 slots.  Min. INT: 12

Captain: This is the ability to command a ship; any kind of vessel that takes a crew, civilian or navy.  A Captain with Tactics Skill can command a warship.  Having a Captain grants the party +1 to initiative in any combat involving ships.  Captain Cost:  2 slots.  Prerequisite: Sailor, plus at least two years on a ship. 

Expert Naturalist:  The character with Expert Naturalist rolls one fewer die than a Naturalist in all situations related to Naturalist Skill.  He can recognize all plants, races and creatures, intelligent and non-, and knows numerous facts about them; he can also make good guesses about creatures he has never before seen or heard of (4d6 Intelligence Check).  Expert Naturalist Cost:  3 slots.  Prerequisite:  Naturalist. 

Expert Stealth:  This is the ability to "hide in plain sight".  With successful 3d6 Intelligence Check, the character can hide in an area even when there is a chance someone might be able to see him; if there is any cover at all he can hide behind it, or he can hide in bizarre areas where no one would think to hide, much less look.  He can peek around corners and through windows and slightly-open doors without being seen.  With a successful 4d6 Intelligence Check he can "break a tail" if there is someone following him.  (Without this Skill these checks are on 5d6 and 7d6, respectively.)  To use Expert Stealth, the character must be wearing leather, cloth, or no armor.  Expert Stealth Cost:  3 slots.  Prerequisite: Stealth

Martial Arts II:  Exactly like Martial Arts I, except that the character does 2 points of damage in combat.  The character can also throw a target; this acts like a shield rush, and uses the rules for shield rush, but doesn't use a shield.  Martial Arts II Cost:  2 slots.  Prerequisite:  Martial Arts I.

Master Armourer: A Master Armourer is an extremely skilled and experienced Armourer.  He can make weapons of Fine quality; if he is also a Goldsmith, he can make silver weapons of Fine quality.  He can make or duplicate any weapon available at his technology level; he can also craft "blanks," or weapons of sufficient quality to take an enchantment.  He can always tell whether a weapon is magical, and by making a 4d6 Intelligence Check, he can identify the enchantment.  He effectively has the Assess Value Skill as regards weapons, and on a successful 3d6 Intelligence Check he can identify the region where the weapon was made; if the weapon was crafted by a Master Armourer, he will be able to identify which one.  With a margin of success of 3 or more, if the weapon was crafted by an apprentice or journeyman trained by a Master Armourer, he can identify the master!  Master Armourer Cost:  2 slots. Prerequisite: Armourer.

Master Thief: The character is a master thief.  The character rolls 1 fewer die when picking a lock or a pocket.  The character also knows the Thieves Cant.  When lying, even to someone with Detect Lies,  the other character rolls one additional die on their Intelligence Check.  Master Thief Cost:  2 slots.  Prerequisites:  Lockpicking, Sleight of Hand

Ventriloquist: This is the ability to make your voice come from somewhere else.  Requires a successful Intelligence Check, -1 for every multihex from you to where you want your voice to come from.  Failure means no one is fooled.  Ventriloquist Cost:  2 slots.
Min. INT 13:
Chemist:  A Chemist is capable of identifying and creating chemical formulae (as opposed to alchemical).  He can make gunpowder and other reasonably well known chemical formulae, given the necessary equipment and facilities.  On a successful 3d6 Intelligence Check, he can identify a chemical formula, or if the item is alchemical, he can identify that it is an alchemical formula.  Chemist Cost:  3 slots.  Prerequisite: Mathematics

Master Artisan:  A Master Artisan is an expert in his craft.  He can make anything an Artisan can, at Fine quality.  He can make gunpowder weapons, crossbows, and siege engines.  When building things (including traps) it takes half the time it would take an Artisan, or if reassembling an item that has been disassembled it takes a quarter the time.  Master Artisan Cost:  2 slots.  Prerequisite:  Artisan

Mathematics: This is knowledge of mathematics at all levels, and is necessary for many scientific disciplines.  A Mathematician has all of the social advantages of a Scholar in the mathematical and scientific communities, as well as at universities and other centers of learning.  Mathematicians are also capable of performing research and teaching in mathematical and scientific disciplines.  A Mathematician can improve his profits by 10% through knowledge of accounting techniques.  Mathematics Cost:  2 slots (the same for Wizards and Warriors).  Prerequisite: Literacy

Scholar: The character is well studied and knowledgeable in the methods and protocols of academia.  He is capable of teaching and performing research, and is at +1 in all social situations involving academics or other scholars.  He can automatically recognize all common languages in use, and (with a 3d6 Intelligence Check) recognize uncommon ones, even if he doesn't speak them.  On a 4d6 Intelligence Check, he can make a good guess as to the origin of most artifacts and magical items.  Scholar Cost:  3 slots.  Prerequisite:  Literacy

Strategy: This is knowledge of strategy and military science.  This is a higher level than Tactics; it involves coordination of troop movements at battalion level and above, knowledge of supply lines, the ability to coordinate disparate operations groups (such as air and ground, or ground troops and psychological operations), and the like.  A character with Captain and Strategy is capable of commanding a fleet.  A party that contains a Strategist recieves +2 on all Initiative in combat.  Strategy Cost:  2 slots.  Prerequisites:  Tactics, plus two years' military experience. 

Piloting:  Piloting is the ability to fly a conveyance of some kind, whether animal drawn, magical, or technological in nature.  The Skill assumes an ability to react appropriately under emergency (though not necessarily combat) conditions; Pilots don't need to roll an Attribute Check at all in non-emergency situations, and roll 3d6 in all noncombat emergency situations, 4d6 in combat conditions, or 5d6 under combat and emergency conditions.  Pilot Cost:  2 slots. 
Min. INT 14:
Alchemy:  Alchemy allows the character to brew potions and other magical and alchemical formulae.  Alchemy has the same cost for Wizards and non-Wizards (3 slots).  On a successful 3d6 Intelligence Check, the alchemist can, given the appropriate equipment, materials, and laboratory, create any of the listed potions or other formulae.  He can also, with a successful 3d6 Intelligence Check, identify an alchemical potion by type and function, or (if the item is a chemical formula rather than alchemical) identify that it is chemical rather than alchemical.  Any character with this Skill can buy the Chemistry Skill at a cost of one less slot, due to their similarity; a Wizard with the Alchemy Skill doesn't pay any extra for Chemistry.  Alchemy Cost:  3 slots.  Min. INT: 14

Combat Pilot:  Combat Pilot allows a character to fly an airborne conveyance against other aircraft in combat conditions.  See under Casual Riding and Combat Riding for the types of conditions under which this might apply.  Combat Pilot Cost:  1 slot.  Min. INT:  14.  Prerequisite:  Pilot Skill. 

Disguise: The character is capable of altering his appearance in order to deceive others.  Given the appropriate materials, a disguise takes about an hour to apply; this is to disguise oneself as a specific person.  A generic disguise (such as a soldier or a homeless person) takes about five minutes and requires no roll.  The GM rolls an Intelligence Check for the character, and tells him whether or not he succeeds.  The degree to which a person attempts to disguise himself can increase the difficulty of the roll; the same sex and species is 3d6, while changing one of these is 4d6 and both 5d6.  Changing to a radically different species (such as a human attempting to impersonate a dwarf or a giant) adds 1d6, and attempting to impersonate the same characteristic as one possessed by the viewer adds an additional 1d6.  Using appearance altering magic or powers reduces the difficulty by 1d6, as does having the Mimic Skill.  Disguise Cost:  2 slots. 

Master Chirurgeon:  A Master Chirurgeon has all of the abilities of a Chirurgeon, and can heal one additional point of damage with or without a medical kit.  (Note that healed damage is not cumulative between Master Chirurgeons and/or Chirurgeons; two of either or both can't work together to add their healing abilities).  A Master Chirurgeon can brew a Healing Potion as if he were an Alchemist.  Master Chirurgeon Cost:  2 slots.  Prerequisite:  Chirurgeon

Theologian: This provides the same benefits as Priest, to a higher degree.  The character is more highly ranked in his church hierarchy, and if a Priest has access to any kind of bonuses or powers, the Theologian should receive about two times the bonuses.  The Theologian is extremely knowledgeable in the history, customs, and rituals of his own religion and, often, of similar or allied religions.  Theologian Cost:  2 slots.  Prerequisite:  Priest. 
